So - as promised: the walk through for my Tinnitus C&P exam:

The test began with the Dr. asking the general questions:

What service was I in (Navy);

What did I do when I was in (Nuclear Machinist Mate on a submarine);

Apparently the VA, in their infinite wisdom, had somehow put on the sheet I was a Sonarman along with another rate. The closest I ever came to sonar was knowing where the dome was, where Sonarmen sat, and which heat exchanger in the engine room could crash it... but that's another story. (Yes - I crashed sonar from the engine room... and Fire Control... and got us counter detected. When I mess up - I go big.)

What was I hearing;

How did it affect my life;

FYI: Apparently, it is acceptable to say "it's annoying." I thought it needed to be more substantial - but apparently not.

What did I do before the service;

What did I do after the service;

(Both of these are looking to rule out 'other' potential causes.)

Was I in combat (not that I knew of, but there aren't really any windows onboard to verify).

Did I have any hobbies that included loud noises (e.g.: firearms; motor cycle riding; etc...).

Next came the first audible test.

He stuck two earplugs in my ear and played different sounds on them. They were just some random tones as far as I could tell, but were on the verge of painful.

He held one of the two in my ear, went through one round, then switched ears.

I can't defend this statement - but I think this was a test to measure how my ear reacted to rule out if I tried to fake hearing loss in the booth.

The booth:

First set of tests: they had a recorded voice say different words, and you're supposed to repeat them.

If you couldn't really hear them - make your best guess.

These are relatively audible. At the low end of my hearing range, but not outside of it.

Second set: They have a voice (louder this time) say the phrase "Say the _____ again".

"______" as far as I could tell was a random word. Examples: vote, car, bicycle.

So you'd hear "Say the 'vote' again" and you'd say "vote." I don't think these phrases are intended to make sense, just identify a word and that you hear it.

SPECULATION ALERT: I think these first two tests are for your hearing, only. They aren't intended to test for tinnitus. Which brings me to...

Third test: He played random tones and different frequencies.

First set was low on the band, and they increased as we went along.

When I heard them, I was to say "yes" to let him know. Even when I only thought I heard a noise I was supposed to say "yes." (I failed the other way - if I wasn't sure I heard a signal - I didn't say "yes.")

Thankfully, there was at least one or two frequencies I legit could not hear.

I say this, as there was at least a 30 second period where all I could hear was my tinnitus. Then I heard a higher frequency noise above my tinnitus range. I speculate that during this period, the test ran through the frequency of what I hear all the time - so it was tinnitus v/s test: tinnitus won.

At some point, the test switched ears - then (tricky, tricky little bastards) they started to randomly switch ears.

I'd bet a diamond against a donut that they repeated the frequencies I couldn't hear - but can't confirm... since I couldn't hear them.

And that's the test that I took.

NOTE for those of us doing C&Ps for the first time: They won't tell you how you did. I discussed with the Dr. and he indicated there's a few reasons:

Some of us might be a bit disgruntled if the Dr. was to say "you don't have this disability and I'm going to say as much." (Seems fair.)

The Dr. may say one thing, and the VA determine another. (This was his main reason of not saying anything.)

So those of you looking for what the test consists of for Tinnitus: That's mine. You might get another one, but it'll probably be similar. Now I wait for my back C&P to get scheduled...

Follow-up to the follow-up: Got the rating letter today - so I've now got 10%. (Yay-ish!). The bad news is I got separation pay so I won't actually see anything until December of 2028... 4-1/2 years from now. But hey - it's better than nothing. I'll take it.
