Are you claiming tinnitus as a stand alone or did you also claim hearing loss. Tinnitus is subjective there is no real test for it. I hope the following helps you.

This is how I wrote my statement and attached it to the claim but you can also use quicksubmit. As loans you get it uploaded before the claim closes. Do not trust the CP examiner to upload your additional documents. This is the reason we get Vets saying I told them this, I handed them that and it is no where in my file.

(Quick Summary)

I am submitting a claim for tinnitus due to my hazardous noise exposure during XYZ.

Relevant Documentation:(Body)

38 U.S. Code § 1154 - Consideration to be accorded time, place, and circumstances of service

M21-1, Part V, Subpart ii, Chapter 2, Section A - Direct Service Connection (SC) and Service Incurrence of an Injury

CFR 38 3.159 Department of Veterans Affairs assistance in developing claims.

VA Fast Letter 10-35 Duty MOS Noise Exposure Listing MOS 2531 (now 06XX)

M21-1, Part III, Subpart iv, Chapter 4, Section B

d. Considering the Duty MOS Noise Exposure Listing and Combat Duties
**“**If the evidence establishes that the Veteran was engaged in combat, concede exposure to hazardous noise for the purposes of establishing an event in service.”

M21-1, Part III, Subpart iv, Chapter 4, Section B

Examinations and Medical Opinions

Notes:

Establishment of an event, injury, or disease in service is fact-specific. If there is no documentation of an in-service illness, injury, or event involving the ears or hearing, the Duty MOS Noise Exposure listing and evidence of combat service will be considered.

- If noise exposure is conceded based on the Duty MOS Noise Exposure Listing, include the level of probability conceded, such as “highly probable” or “moderate,” in the information provided to the examiner in the body of the examination request.

- If noise exposure is conceded based on engagement in combat with the enemy, include this detail in the information provided to the examiner in the body of the examination request.

Evidence of Claim:(Details)

When was your instance of hazardous noise exposure: bootcamp, MOS school, etc..

How it happened : pugil stick, rifle range, grenade training, etc,,

How it was aggravated: assigned to xyz unit, school, duty that was involved in xyz....

how it has affected your life: constant ringing in both ears, gets more profound when xyz. never goes away, affects my time with my family, activities, work, etc...

How it has affected your life: constant ringing in both ears, gets more profound when xyz. never goes away, affects my time with my family, activities, work, etc...