Have you been denied or are you projceting an outcome? Have you read the Examiners notes and report to the VA? Just trying to get a sense of where you stand with your claim.

I don't know your service record or situation, but below is how I cited my lay statement, and if you have combat engagement in your service somewhere, this may be a helpful way to structure your Laystatement, as it spells out exactly what the VA needs to follow for a rating to be approved.

DC 6260, Tinnitus Recurrent. I am filing for direct service-connected Tinnitus, due to military service from Feb 2005 – Sept 2014.

 V.iii.2.B.1.b.  Considering the Duty MOS Noise Exposure Listing and Combat Duties:

·        “When the duty position is shown to have a high, moderate, or low probability of hazardous noise exposure, concede exposure to hazardous noise for the purposes of establishing an event in service”.

o   According to my claims attached evidence labeled:  DD-214, all my in-service duty positions (3POX1,1A1X1 & 1A9X1) show to have High and Moderate probability to hazardous noise exposure, and the DVA needs to concede exposure hazardous noise for the purposes of establishing an event in service.

·        “Also review the Veteran’s records for evidence that the Veteran engaged in combat with the enemy in active service during a period of war, campaign, or expedition.  If the evidence establishes that the Veteran was engaged in combat, concede exposure to hazardous noise for the purposes of establishing an event in service”.

o   According to my claims attached evidence labeled: Air Force Achievement Medal and Afghanistan Campaign Medal, in conjunction with my below lay-statement, this provides evidence that I had an in-service event where I was engaged in combat with the enemy in active service during a period of war, campaign, expedition.

“Notes: When hazardous noise exposure is conceded based on the Veteran engaging in combat, accept satisfactory lay or other evidence of service incurrence or aggravation of such injury or disease, if consistent with the circumstances, conditions, or hardships of such service, ~even if there is no official record of such incurrence or aggravation in such service~*.  Resolve every reasonable doubt in favor of the Veteran unless there is clear and convincing evidence to the contrary”.*

o   Please see my lay statement below concerning my evidence of service incurrence or aggravation of such injury or disease.

 

Current Diagnosis and Treatment: According to my claims attached evidence labeled: "Hines VA Active Problems Diagnosis” and Audiology – Tinnitus Hines VA, this highlights my current Diagnosis and treatment plan. My current treatments include the utilization of sound management techniques, incorporating calming and engaging sounds to mitigate adverse responses to tinnitus. Additionally, relaxation and guided imagery practices are presently integrated, along with the use of a sound machine during my nighttime sleep.

Lay Evidence and Statement: Blah blah blah.... write your own lay statement for your service and how this disability has impacted your life since you first started hearing the ringing.

Good Luck, I hope this helps.